The two version of v7 is somehow complete and powerful to meet @docs/uv/requirements.md. However, they are still far from satisfying. Here are comments:

1. Features are not organically combined. For example, the CPS model and the workload specification should be one thing, but in analysis.md they are separate. The v2 features are more fragmented. You should carefully select the useful features and present a organically unified solution. For example, the SparseTIR's axis system is good, but we should absort them into our workload construction, and the syntax should be more compatible with the existing primitives. Remember, we don't need many compilation capabilities, since we are creating virtual ISA extension, which is somehow low-level enough. For example, I think we don't need the Relax's features. 
2. You should be clear what we can control. We cannot do fusion, since the kernel things, how task is done on AICores, are programmed by existing pto-isa. So we don't need to have primitives like fusion. Still, the pipeline primitives and stitch primitives are somehow useless. For pipelining, we should have custom functions or some built-in primitives to control when the issue happens for each task. For stitching, it more relates to the dispatch, such as dispatching tasks from different batches to one AICPU. As for issue primitives, we might need primitives to split into streams like CUDA streams. But this also relates to the "when the issues happens". These primitives needs more careful consideration.
3. We seem to overlook the essential dependencies between tasks, which should be infered by the composition primitives for workload building and other special constraints. The issue must consider the dependencies. I don't see where they are discussed or considered.
4. We need better typing for all constructs and immediate artifacts of the Workload-Schedule paradigm. Here, typing is not just a C++ class. What we need is the programming language's type system, which encodes more information about the artifacts and can do type checking for soundness.

Let's recap existing and prior analysis and designs, and improve them for the next version, according to the comments above and the design requirements docs/uv/requirements.md, docs/uv/design-questions.md. You should also recap research notes to keep the knowledge in mind.