1. The runtime extension code needs to be compiled into AICPU runtime binary, rather than only codes runs on the developer's machine. Therefore, I don't think we can just run normal c++ codes to describe everything we need, especially for the dynamic strategies. We may need JIT features, and you should consider carefully about the implementation when designing the PTO-ISA extension.
2. Also according to the runtime generation requirements, the capability to define tasks and specify attributes are not enough. We also need to model the whole workload, which might be dynamic. This is overlapping with the JIT requirements. You should use the similar idea behind "Halide: Algorithm-Schedule Separation" in @docs/uv/research/03_pl_design.md with the granuality above tasks (composing tasks by blocks and loops, and how to represent MoE like routing?). Here, we need a workload specification (named algorithm in halide), and our dispatching and issueing as described in @docs/uv/design-questions.md and @docs/uv/archive/v4/comments.md should be handled in a halide's schedule way. But we definitely needs new "schedule primitives" for dispatch/issue's requirements. For example, how to dispatch tasksets (also generated by some primitives from a workload) to AICPUs, and how to issue with dependencies (event, synchronization). I think the stitching, or inter-instruction pipeline in @references/megakernels.pdf should be represented by schedule primitives. This is the position you need to carefully research and design. Our fashine can be named as "Workload-Schedule".
3. Event-driven is general enough, but not elegant from my view. You should learn about the CSP model in @references/dam.pdf. I think this should be combined with the "Workload-Schedule" fashine seamlessly.

Improve the v5 version with the comments above. Also keep in mind the requirements @docs/uv/requirements.md and the old solutions' comments (especially critiques). 